---
title: OFFLINE_MARKDOWN_TEST01
---

At Equality Labs, we believe resistance begins with understanding how we can organize safely, and how to protect ourselves and our communications. We must also keep one another close, the strongest defense against surveillance is a collective one rooted in community, self-care and accountability. This curriculum aims to present immediate common-sense measures to help activists learn how to protect each other and their movements.
Although some countries have privacy protection laws governments can still employ surveillance technologies; lawful or not. Depending on the political climate, such laws can change overnight. Further beyond the state, elements of the right wing are also working to track and harass organizers with the end goal of scaring people from being part of the movement If you are mobilizing against repression, the less information the system has on you the better and this curriculum is designed to show you how.
It's easy to assume that repressive or fascist governments would be the only ones to employ invasive surveillance tools but—that is not the case. we need to consistently protect important data no matter who is in office. For governments have used shocking1 events like wars, climate disasters, economic downturns etc. to increase their power and to suppress opposition by tricking people into giving up their rights. We have witnessed the rolling back of civil liberties by authorities limiting or even outlawing the right to protest. We’ve also seen people respond en masse against dictatorial rule with much success. Digital security will not end repression on its own; but, people must use it to guard data and collective strategies in the process of fighting repression. For where the law has failed in protecting our privacy rights, digital and operational security practices can help us defend them. 
We need to have a holistic approach to maintaining privacy when it comes to all countries2. If you are making non-secure communications across borders, you may be putting your contacts or even yourself at risk. It's also important to have constructive conversations with people in your national or international movements who do not have routines around digital security.
This curriculum will help you make informed decisions about protective measures that can reduce harmful levels of surveillance while helping you navigate new risks as they come up. There will never be a perfect silver bullet in terms of digital surveillance, but we believe we can help you feel safer and informed as you organize because you know the tools and you know your rights. Think of it as harm reduction for the digital organizer!
